# Installing ROS 2 Humble on Ubuntu 22.04

Now that Ubuntu 22.04 is sucessfully installed on the computer, we can proceed with installing ROS 2 Humble. 

For most updated Installation please follow the instructions [here](https://docs.ros.org/en/humble/Installation/Ubuntu-Install-Debs.html).
The following instructions were last used and verified on December 30, 2024.

_***Note**_: To install any other software such as Google Chrome or WhatsApp, please follow the official installation guides found online. 

## 1. Set Locale

Make sure you have a locale which supports `UTF-8`. If you are in a minimal environment (such as a docker container), the locale may be something minimal like `POSIX`. We test with the following settings. However, it should be fine if you’re using a different UTF-8 supported locale.

```bash
locale  # check for UTF-8

sudo apt update && sudo apt install locales
sudo locale-gen en_US en_US.UTF-8
sudo update-locale LC_ALL=en_US.UTF-8 LANG=en_US.UTF-8
export LANG=en_US.UTF-8

locale  # verify settings
```

## 2. Setup Sources

You will need to add the ROS 2 apt repository to your system.

First ensure that the Ubuntu Universe repository is enabled.

```bash
sudo apt install software-properties-common
sudo add-apt-repository universe
```

Now add the ROS 2 GPG key with apt.

```bash
sudo apt update && sudo apt install curl -y
sudo curl -sSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ros/rosdistro/master/ros.key -o /usr/share/keyrings/ros-archive-keyring.gpg
```

Then add the repository to your sources list.

```bash
echo "deb [arch=$(dpkg --print-architecture) signed-by=/usr/share/keyrings/ros-archive-keyring.gpg] http://packages.ros.org/ros2/ubuntu $(. /etc/os-release && echo $UBUNTU_CODENAME) main" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/ros2.list > /dev/null
```

## 3. Install ROS 2 Packages

Update your apt repository caches after setting up the repositories. ROS 2 packages are built on frequently updated Ubuntu systems. It is always recommended that you ensure your system is also up to date before installing new packages.

```bash
sudo apt update && sudo apt upgrade -y
```

Desktop Install (Recommended): ROS, RViz, demos, tutorials.

```bash
sudo apt install ros-humble-desktop
```

ROS-Base Install (Bare Bones): Communication libraries, message packages, command line tools. No GUI tools.

```bash
sudo apt install ros-humble-ros-base
```

Development tools: Compilers and other tools to build ROS packages

```bash
sudo apt install ros-dev-tools
```

## 4. Environment Setup 
### Sourcing the Setup Script 

Set up your environment by sourcing the following file.

```bash
# Replace ".bash" with your shell if you're not using bash
# Possible values are: setup.bash, setup.sh, setup.zsh
source /opt/ros/humble/setup.bash
```

_______________________________________________

### Try Some Examples to verify the Installation

#### Talker-Listener 

If you installed `ros-humble-desktop` above you can try some examples.

In one terminal, source the setup file and then run a C++ `talker`:

```bash
source /opt/ros/humble/setup.bash
ros2 run demo_nodes_cpp talker
```

In another terminal source the setup file and then run a Python `listener`:

```bash
source /opt/ros/humble/setup.bash
ros2 run demo_nodes_py listener
```

You should see the `talker` saying that it’s `Publishing` messages and the `listener` saying `I heard` those messages. This verifies both the C++ and Python APIs are working properly. Hooray!

__________________________________________________

#### Notes:

We selected the install from Debian Binary Packages since it results in a fully-functional and usable ROS2 and alos it is more convenient because it installs its necessary dependencies automatically and updates alongside regular system updates. On the other hand, building from source is for developers looking to alter or explicitly omit parts of ROS 2’s base. It is also recommended for platforms that don’t support binaries. Building from source also gives you the option to install the absolute latest version of ROS 2.

Now, you should have sucessfully installed ROS 2 Humble on your system and you're ready to begin creating the Node Network for this project!

[Next page](https://github.com/hasanshomar/ROS2-Raspberry-Pi-HQ-Camera-Integration/blob/main/Setting%20up%20the%20Laptop%20/3.%20Installing%20Additional%20Dependencies.md)
